# Bellcore Heilmeier's Catechism

1. What are you trying to do? Articulate your objectives using absolutely no jargon.
    * The problem is that the results generated by Nessus scanner can be overwhelmingly large and difficult for an analyst and administrators to comprehend.
    * Problems comprehending these reports can lead to analysts and administrators not focusing on the most pressing issues in their systems.
2. How is it done today, and what are the limits of current practice?
    * Today Nessus scans are analyzed and visualized through the included Nesssus web interface.
    * The web interface does a good job of showing distribution of different types of vulnerabilities on a machine but it is more difficult to comprehend the vulnerability of a given machine in the context of the larger network.
3. What's new in your approach and why do you think it will be successful?
    * Our approach uses a tree map to visualize a given network.
    * We use the size and color of each node on the map to indicate the number of vulnerabilities associated with the node and the overall severity of those vulnerabilities.
    * This will be successful because __...__
4. Who cares? If you're successful, what difference will it make?
    * nv will help to make network vulnerability analysis more efficient and assist analysts and administrators to prioritize maintenance.
5. What are the risks and the payoffs?
    * TODO
6. How much will it cost? How long will it take?
    * Cost = TODO
    * The initial prototype will take approximately two weeks of part time work. 
7. What are the midterm and final "exams" to check for success?
    * Maybe a usability study?
    * TODO

