### Related Works in Vulnerability Analysis

Currently most computer vulnerability analysis is done using graph based
techniques to model the state of the system.  One such technique is known as
Topological Vulnerability Analysis (TVA).  TVA uses the network state and attack
vectors between machines to create an attach graph that will model all possible attack paths in a
network.  To generate these attack graphs TVA uses information from scanning
tools such as Nessus and Retina.  The graphs generated by TVA tend to be very
large so it introduces an aggregation and visual analysis element to make the
models easier to comprehend by an analyst.  One aggregation used by the TVA
visualization is to
aggregate machines based on their ability to access other machines.  A group of
machines will be aggregated if each node in the group has access to every other
node.
These groupings are then aggregated into a single node in the visualization.
**Noel**

Researchers have also used model checking tools like NuSMV to manipulate graph
representations of a network where each node is a state of the network and each
transition represents an exploit.  This type of attack graph allows and analyst
to focus efforts on patching exploits (edges) that create the largest
disconnects in the graph.  This type of analysis is convenient because we
already have graph algorithms that can efficiently perform such analysis.
**Aman**

Ou, Govindavjhala and Appel take a different approach to security analysis in
their MulVAL project.
They attempt to model the interactions between known vulnerabilities and
software bugs, configurations and permission policies.  In their approach an
analyst will specify the system and policies in a logic language that is a subset of the
Prolog logic programming language and vulnerabilities in the Open Vulnerability
Assessment Language. After the systems, policies and vulnerabilities are defined
the MulVAL system uses a two phase algorithm to simulate attacks and then policy
checking.  The system generates all possible attacks based on the
vulnerabilities and then compares those with the defined policies to detect
violations.
**Ou**

